>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm gonna show
you a pro technique real quick, and
then we're gonna do the challenge.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so this is
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Kind of important.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's
talk about data mutations.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So ideally,
when you're creating an application
that you want to one,
minimize state but
you want your state to be immutable.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The issue is,
when you have an application,
if everything is immutable,
how do you do anything?
Every application, the user has
to interact in a meaningful way.
And so, invariably, you are going
to have to have state mutations.
Now to be clear, mutable state
in itself is not a bad thing.
Shared mutable state, on the other hand,
is the devil's handiwork.
Because when you have two things that
have a reference to a property or
an object of some sort or
state that is shared between them and
either one of them can mutate it.
Now, essentially they
are holding each other hostage.
Because let's say component
A can do some nefarious
thing to the shared object that
has an adverse effect on Item B.
Does that make sense?
So essentially, if you have two things
that can actually mutate a shared object,
well, and you have no control
over what the other thing does,
you're kind of at the mercy.
That is a recipe for unpredictability.
And so this is one of the reasons why even
I think inheritance is really dangerous.
Because now you have this implicit trust
that, hey, everything is gonna work out.
You're gonna do everything in my best
interest, and that's not always the case.
So, mutable state is not a bad thing.
Shared mutable state is
where things go wonky.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
in the case of a form, what do you do?
Well the answer is [SOUND].
You isolate that state or
that state mutation to that component.
And so let me show you how to do this.
And actually I'm super stoked cuz I
actually forgot these was on the docket.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
we have in our form, let's go to items.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: A form to see and
edit the item details.
Now the question is,
if I were just passing this in and
I started to actually mutate this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The minute
I changed it here,
it would actually change it up here.
And so let me actually see
if I can illustrate this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So this is the
solution by the way to how to get around
this but,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Input
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Item.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I think
I broke something, hang on.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Item detail,
cannot read property of id line to find.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Hold on, I just
need to update this template real quick.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then I will illustrate exactly,
let's just replace this with this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Still no good?
ItemDetailComponent.
Let's see if this shows
what else is going on.
Not helpful.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Keep going down.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So this is interesting
we're talking about debugging.
On one hand I got that super
helpful error of hey, use this and
here's some suggested code.
And then over here it's like
do whatever you want cuz,
I don't know what's going on here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So let's see here,
ID, ID, ID, somewhere in here.
>> Speaker 2: Is the item
there in line two?
>> Speaker 2: I don't know maybe.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's see
what happens if we do this.
So I'm completely free styling here but
I really would love for this to work.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Refresh.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Name of undefined.
>> Speaker 3: It's often I get that name,
yeah.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
So we're making progress.
So right now you can see I'm binding
to something that doesn't exist.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay,
let's change this up.
Just a second.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm gonna
make this work, or else.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Did I
forget a description?
ID of undefined.
What the?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Wait.
>> [SOUND]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All
of that to get to here.
So just refresh the page.
Now, here's the issue.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm
sending in an item,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now it's
into the form.
The minute that I touch this and
start to mutate it,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Look
what has happened.
Because I'm passing by reference,
that when I edit this here in the form,
notice that it is updating
over in the list.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
how would I back out of this?
I've already mutated the object.
How do I essentially keep this?
We're really backed out of this operation.
What if you start to type and you're like,
I didn't really want to do anything.
I want to basically abort this.
How do you do that?
Unfortunately, you've
already performed a mutation.
That's a problem.
And so, again, I've done this to
illustrate that shared mutable state,
you can edit it or mutate it to one place,
and it's somewhere else.
That cold have adverse effects.
So, let me just back out of
this and
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
by the way to make that work
what I had to was actually,
basically use an initial default value
in the parent component to initially,
essentially seed or
populate that property binding that I had.
Let's go back here and we'll delete this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
we're gonna go here and
back into my item detail component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And let's talk about
how to isolate state mutations to a single
component.
What we're doing here,
is,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Using
a setter method, on the input.
So essentially,
instead of setting the property directly,
when somebody goes to set the property,
it actually calls the setter method.
And so what we're saying,
is when item gets set from the parent,
we actually want to intercept
that with a method.
And then using object.assign,
we actually wanna create
a copy of this object.
And in this case it's value.
We essentially want to create a local copy
of item and assigned it to selected item.
Now what I'm also doing up here
is I'm setting original names.
So this is purely a thing and I'm just
keeping track of the original name.
So that I can go over here and,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: When we go to items,
I still have kind of track
of like you're editing this.
So I'm just preserving the original name.
But, because I'm creating a copy
using object auto sign in here,
in my template
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: When I
edit my item,
I'm actually editing selected item.
Then when I'm ready to save it and
I'm like,
hey this is good, then we go, click, Save.
And we're not omitting the original item.
We're omitting the new item to be passed
to be to the parent to then be passed to
the service.
And so again, state comes down, events
flow up with essentially instructions or
new state to be applied
further up the chain.
And so, what I just really wanna call
out here, is using the setter method.
When we set item,
I'm just trading a local copy so
that we can mutate that all day long.
And if we wanna throw it away,
well that's totally fine.
Because we haven't changed
anything anywhere else.
But when we're ready to commit it, then we
just service it to the parent component.
And so this is actually a pretty
fundamental component or technique for
isolating state change when you
have a component with a form.
Is pass in the data model via input,
use object.assign to create a copy of it,
mutate the local copy.
And when you're ready, then you can send
it back up, or you can throw it away.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Does that make sense?
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: This is where we might
get into a problem that has nothing to
do with the channel.
But assign doesn't do a deep clone.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Right.
>> Speaker 2: Right.
So when you got a object that has
multiple levels and things like that.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Right, so if you
have an object that has other objects.
So just actually thank you for
pointing it out.
Object.assign does not do a deep clone so
depending on what you're sending
in this may not be sufficient.
In most cases when dealing with
simple objects, it's totally fine but
just be cognizant.
It is a shallow copy and
if you need a deep copy,
there are thousands of ways to do that.
I mean, there's just libraries.
I mean, there's plenty of utilities to
help you essentially accomplish your
deep clone dreams.
I think underscore,
I think every one of them has a,
you know it's a pretty
standard utility function.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Make sense?
So this is actually a really important
concept that once I realized,
this was kind of as I'm going into this
reactive stake down, event up, redux.
That was one of the big questions I have
is look if we're moving to an immutable
world, what do you do about forms?
You have to change stuff.
And so I went and talked to actually well,
Bob Brumworld really actually
helped me out quite a bit.
But Paul Taylor who works in RSJS,
in a couple of different lines.
Really the consensus is like look,
mutable state is not bad as
long as you do not share it.
What you need to do is isolate it, and
this is really kind of
the best way to do that.
Is now creating a local copy to mutate and
we're not touching essentially
the shared object that we're parsing in.